Survival Game Information

It is the year 1991. You have crash landed on the
moon and have only 180 minutes of oxygen and 230
units of power remaining. You are at Mare Serenitatis
and observe the long, eerie shadows being cast by the
distant mountains across the barren landscape. The realization 
sinks in that you are in big trouble.

Game Description

Survival is an “adventure” type of game. With
logic, skill, persistence, and a little bit of luck, it ts pos-
sible to survive. The action takes place on the surface
of the moon where you must assess the situation, ex-
plore the surroundings, avoid potential hazards, and
gather needed resources.

It is a race against time. Many explorations arc
required before the total situation is revealed, and the
resources and life-threatening hazards are discovered.

Only then, can the process of determining an optimum
course of action begin.

Once you succeed in surviving, there is then the
challenge to plan new survival sequences to minimize
the total elapsed time.

The commands to move are NORTH, SOUTH,
EAST, WEST, UP, and DOWN. These commands may be
spelled out or entered as a single letter—N, S, E, W, U, and D.

Other commands consist of an action verb fol-
lowed by a noun. Examples of these commands are:

GET ILLUMINATOR
DROP KNIFE
INVENTORY

The set of commands is relatively small, hence
you may have to try several alternatives to find the
one that works. All commands may be abbreviated to
the first three letters. To exit the program, you may
enter END or QUIT. There is no provision for saving a
partially completed game.

Program Design
The program is relatively es it was orig-
inally written to fit in a computer with 8K of memory.

The program is directed by a move matrix M.
There in one vector for cach location P in the game.
Table 1 lists the significance of each vector in the matrix M.

If the vector element (1-6) contains a value of
“0," then the move requested in that direction is
invalid. If the vector clement contains a “99,” then the
game is terminated.

The TS vector contains the textual description of
all of the various locations. As an example, the first
three elements in the vector contain the description for
location 1 in the M matrix. Looking at the line 9001,
the seventh and eighth data items correspond to
MU1,7) which has a value of 1, and M(1,8) which has s
value of 3.

Table 2 lists the variables used in the program.

Table 3 lists each of the objects used in the program 
which are contained in the 0 vector. Normally
the vector clement in 0, for # given object, contains either
the P location of that item, or a valuc of 99 indicating 
that the player is carrying that item.

Locations 1-18, and 38 normally require oxygen.
All other locations are within the space station or the
space craft. Locations 1-21, and 38 require a power
unit or peck. All other locations are within the space
station,

Changing the Complexity of the Game

Normally, the program permits the player to
carry four items. One way the difficulty can be increased 
is by permitting only three items to be carried.
In this case, a longer survival time results, and the
following statements must be updated:

350 LET T2 = 275
360 LET P1 = 320
370 LET P2=75
730 IF T1 > 485 THEN 2960
740 IF T1 > 380 THEN 3840
2270 IF C>2 THEN 2390

Conclusion

This program, unlike other Adventures, contains
no random events. The emphasis is on determining op-
timum move scenarios, resulting in minimum times
and resource use. Each location described corresponds
to an actual moon location taken from a National Geo-
graphic map of the moon.

We wish you many happy hours of exploration.
As a benchmarks, the author's best survival time is
385 minutes, with a four-item carry limit. Here's to
your survival!

-------------------------------------
Table 1.
M(P,1)= location to go to if direction is NORTH
M(P,2)= location to go to if direction is SOUTH
M(P,3)= location to go to if direction is EAST
M(P,4)= location to go to if direction in WEST
M(P,5)= location to go to if direction is UP
M(P,6)= location ta go to if direction is DOWN
M(P,7)= pointer to first print line in TS vector
M(P,8)= pointer to last print line in TS vector


Table 2.
P - The current location.
R - The previous location (P for the previous location).
T1 - The current elapsed time.
T2 - The amount of oxygen remaining in the oxygen module.
P1 - The amount of power remaining in the power unit.
P2 - The amount of power remaining in the power pack.
V - The number of visits to the control center.
C - The number of items being carried.
F0 - Flag: oxygen in use.
F1 - Flag: Meteor shower.
F2 - Flag: Shed open.
F4 - Flag: Illuminator on.
F7 - Flag: Bomb deactivated.
F9 - Flag: Oxygen required in station.

Table 3.
O(1) - An electronic key.
O(2) - Sealant.
O(3) - An oxygen module.
O(4) - An illuminator.
O(5) - A robot.
O(6) - A deactivator.
O(7) - A nuclear bomb.
O(8) - A transporter unit.
O(9) - Ditithium crystals.
O(10) - A computer message.
O(11) - A power unit.
0(12) - A mirror.
0(13) - A coded badge.
Q(14) - A power pack.